CanvasRenderingContext2D - add missing properties (#19859)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/htmlcanvaselement/contextlost_event/index.md

---
title: 'HTMLCanvasElement: contextlost event'
slug: Web/API/HTMLCanvasElement/contextlost_event
page-type: web-api-event
tags:
  - Event
  - Reference
  - Canvas
browser-compat: api.HTMLCanvasElement.contextlost_event
---
{{APIRef}}

> The **`contextlost`** event of the [Canvas API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API) is fired (with the `cancelable` attribute initialized to `true`) if the user agent detects that the backing storage associated with a [`CanvasRenderingContext2D`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D) or [`OffscreenCanvasRenderingContext2D`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/OffscreenCanvasRenderingContext2D) context is lost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`contextlost`** event of the [Canvas API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API) is fired if the user agent detects that the backing storage associated with a [`CanvasRenderingContext2D`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D) or [`OffscreenCanvasRenderingContext2D`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/OffscreenCanvasRenderingContext2D) context is lost.

Contexts can be lost for several reasons like driver crashes or the application runs out of memory, etc.

The `cancelable` attribute of this event is `true`. You can cancel this event in order to cancel the future restoration of the context.
```

> The **`contextlost`** event of the [Canvas API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API) is fired (with the `cancelable` attribute initialized to `true`) if the user agent detects that the canvas backing storage associated with a [`CanvasRenderingContext2D`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D) or [`OffscreenCanvasRenderingContext2D`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/OffscreenCanvasRenderingContext2D) context is lost.

Author: ```suggestion
The **`contextlost`** event of the [Canvas API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Canvas_API) is fired (with the `cancelable` attribute initialized to `true`) if the user agent detects that the backing storage associated with a [`CanvasRenderingContext2D`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CanvasRenderingContext2D) or [`OffscreenCanvasRenderingContext2D`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/OffscreenCanvasRenderingContext2D) context is lost.
```

## Syntax

Use the event name in methods like {{domxref("EventTarget.addEventListener", "addEventListener()")}}, or set an event handler property.

```js
addEventListener('contextlost', (event) => {});

oncontextlost = (event) => { };
```

## Event type

A generic {{domxref("Event")}}.

## Example

> The code fragment below detects the context lost event.

Author: @Elchi3 When a context is lost this event gets fired, `CanvasRenderingContext2D.isContextLost()` will return true. The user agent attempts to reset the context and then if it succeeds it fires `contextrestored` event.

1. According to [the spec](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/webappapis.html#context-lost-steps)
   > Let shouldRestore be the result of firing an event named contextlost at canvas, with the cancelable attribute initialized to true.
   > If shouldRestore is false, then abort these steps.

   Can you advise on how an event being fired might "result" in some evaluation for shouldRestore ?

2. I'm assuming this example might need to be updated if there is something handling code needs to do. Otherwise is there any point in having this section?

Author: Fixed!

I'll ping you if the BCD PR gives me problems
